docs/README.md, before:

This site contains a number of tutorials in Jupyter Notebook format meant
to bring new Python coders up to speed quickly with zero background
knowledge.


## GETTING STARTED
Info about installing python here.

## THE TUTORIALS
### Language Basics
The following tutorials contain information about the base language.
This includes variable types, general language behavior, file I/O,
object-oriented behavior, and more. Though we will refer

| # | Topic | Download|
|---|-------|---------|
| 1 | [Syntax Basics](primer01_basics.md) | [primer01.ipynb](primer01_basics.ipynb) |

### Scientific Python Packages
The following tutorials cover using the most popular and important packages
for scientific python programming.

### Errata
Finally, these tutorials do not fit in anywhere else, but the material is still
useful!

## Trying links:
Absolute:
[Syntax Basics](https://github.com/spacecataz/python_syntax/blob/main/primer01_basics.md)

Relative:
[Syntax Basics](../primer01_basics.md)

Using `/` as repository root:
[Syntax Basics](/primer01_basics.md)


## Trying links with a file inside `/docs/`:
Absolute:
[Syntax Basics](https://github.com/spacecataz/python_syntax/blob/main/docs/example.md)

Relative:
[Syntax Basics](example.md)

Commit message:

Adding more info on links.

docs/README.md, after:

This site contains a number of tutorials in Jupyter Notebook format meant
to bring new Python coders up to speed quickly with zero background
knowledge.


## GETTING STARTED
Info about installing python here.

## THE TUTORIALS
### Language Basics
The following tutorials contain information about the base language.
This includes variable types, general language behavior, file I/O,
object-oriented behavior, and more. Though we will refer

| # | Topic | Download|
|---|-------|---------|
| 1 | [Syntax Basics](primer01_basics.md) | [primer01.ipynb](primer01_basics.ipynb) |

### Scientific Python Packages
The following tutorials cover using the most popular and important packages
for scientific python programming.

### Errata
Finally, these tutorials do not fit in anywhere else, but the material is still
useful!

## Trying links:
Absolute:
[Syntax Basics](https://github.com/spacecataz/python_syntax/blob/main/primer01_basics.md)

Relative:
links to ../primer01_basics.md
[Syntax Basics](../primer01_basics.md)

Using `/` as repository root:
links to /primer01_basics.md
[Syntax Basics](/primer01_basics.md)


## Trying links with a file inside `/docs/`:
Absolute currently links to `the-whole-url/docs/example.md`:
[Syntax Basics](https://github.com/spacecataz/python_syntax/blob/main/docs/example.md)

Relative (currently links to `./docs/example.md`):
[Syntax Basics](example.md)
